KMEANS()                                                              KMEANS()

NAME
       kmeans - cluster 3D data using an approximated iterative algorithm

SYNOPSIS
       kmeans  -i  input_file  -o  output_file  -k num_clusters [-t threshold]
       [-gc] [-m membership_output_file] [-s seed]

DESCRIPTION
       kmeans reads the input_file, which should be  a  comma-separated  file,
       containing  coordinates  of  points in 3D space in each line. (The file
       can contain comment lines, which start  with  the  hash  character  #.)
       Using  an  approximated  iterative algorithm and the supplied parameter
       num_clusters, the program divides the input points into k clusters.

       The result of the program is a file located in the  path  specified  in
       the  output_file  argument. It is a comma-separated file containing the
       computed coordinates of the cluster  centers.  The  program  will  also
       print the execution time of the clustering algorithm to stdout.

       If  the -m option was specified, the program also writes to a file with
       the name supplied in the membership_output_file argument. The  produced
       file  has the exact same number of lines, as input_file; each line con‐
       tains a single number indicating which cluster the point  was  assigned
       to.  The  indexes of the cluster in the file correspond to the order of
       cluster center coordinates in the output_file.

OPTIONS
       -i input_file
              Specifies the path of the input CSV file, containing coordinates
              of the points to cluster.

       -o output_file
              Specifies  the  path  of the output CSV file, which will contain
              the coordinates of the calculated cluster centers.

       -k num_clusters
              Used to specify the number of  clusters  the  points  should  be
              split  into.  The  value of this argument should be greater than
              one and less than the total number of 3D points in input_file.

       t threshold
              Specifies the threshold which is used in the iteration  termina‐
              tion  condition.   This  number specifies how many of the points
              can change cluster membership in the last iteration.  The  value
              of  this argument should be between 0 and 1, where lower is bet‐
              ter, but slower. The default value of this argument is 0.01.

       -g     Uses the GPU parallel algorithm for  clustering,  utilizing  the
              CUDA toolkit.

       -c     Uses the CPU serial algorithm for clustering.

       -m membership_output_file
              Specifies  the path of the file to which the membership of every
              point in the input_file will be written.

       -s seed
              Used to specify the seed to use in the random number  generator.
              Randomness is used in the clustering algorithm to initialize the
              means before the first iteration. When this parameter is  speci‐
              fied,  the  program  output  in both the CPU and GPU versions is
              deterministic.  The choice of the proper seed value  can  influ‐
              ence  the  output  quality  (for  some values the convergence is
              worse, for some better). If no seed is  specified,  the  current
              system time is used to initialize the generator.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       The makefile for the project was adapted from the NVIDIA CUDA samples.

       The  GPU  computation  uses  Thrust  for fast summation of the subdelta
       counts from each block.

                                                                      KMEANS()
